So the long answer, that was a very long answer
to your question, right?
Very long answer.
What I was trying to say was this.
In those years, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83,
we learned a lot about how to present our case on television.
And this was a strike that was in large part
handled through the medium of television.
And the South Wales executive told me,
you're gonna be our spokesman,
you're gonna handle the press.
And it was done with tremendous discipline.
I mean, there were lots of people who were shouting
the odds about going back to work,
and we've had enough of this,
and Scargill's bloody useless,
and we just belonged before the terrible deprivation
of the autumn and the winter.
But we maintained the discipline and held the line.
And it was all about having a real media strategy.
That's what we did.
Do you think that the miners' side was handled
as well as the government's side?
Yeah, I think so.
The co-op of management were just rubbish.
They were useless.
And Phil Weeks was pretty good,
who was the director of the South Wales Call Field.
He had a very nice way with him,
but he didn't like doing media.
He could have been much more effective than he was,
but I think that's because Phil never really believed
in what the Call Board was doing.
The bosses of the Call Board themselves came across
as out of touch, arrogant, grad grinds.
Thatcher was pretty dreadful.
Peter Walker was much more skillful.
And in fact, they started to learn very quickly.
We could see them getting better on the television.
And they certainly beat us to the punch
by the Christmas and the New Year of the strike.
And that really upset me.
Scargill was a real enigma in a way.
He was terrific, a morborator.
And I've always hated morborators.
I never trusted them, and I don't trust them, no.
But he was...
And one of the most frightening things
I've ever been part of really was the huge rally
in Aberavon, in the hall in Aberavon.
God, it was unbelievable.
It was like one of these terrible totalitarian rallies.
But he also had this other side to him,
which was a kind of inability to say things,
which acknowledged that there was another argument.
And that was a fatal weakness.
What about the portrayals of the
miners themselves on television?
Was it a fair portrayal, do you think?
Oh, yeah, I think we had a very, very good media image.
And that was partly because so many miners
are so articulate.
They could express this stuff so beautifully
and in such a kind of apposite way.
And I think that was a very, very good portrayal.
In such a kind of apposite and timely way,
they were good at it.
And they would always be on almost every picket line,
certainly the kind of the big trouble spots.
There'd always be somebody who was...
Ivor England, for example.
Ivor was absolutely brilliant.
Ivor had this genius of disguising the fact
that he was a highly intelligent guy
by sounding as if he just came out from the pit
and his mother hadn't let him out for 10 years or something.
Well, I don't know what's going on here.
I can't understand him.
He just work in men who wanna work.
He was brilliant.
And Arfon Evans, who was the chairman of the Marty Lodge,
he was another one.
But there were loads and loads of marvelous,
very articulate guys.
And women, of course.
I mean, God, some of the best explanations
of what this was about came from women.